[DOCS] Adds PUT inference API docs (#51231)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/ml/df-analytics/apis/put-inference.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[put-inference]]
=== Create {infer} trained model API
[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>Crerate {infer} trained model</titleabbrev>
++++

Creates an {infer} trained model.

experimental[]

[[ml-put-inference-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`PUT _ml/inference/<model_id>`

[[ml-put-inference-prereq]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the following 
built-in roles and privileges:

* `machine_learning_admin`

* source index: `read`, `view_index_metadata`
* destination index: `read`, `create_index`, `manage` and `index`
* cluster: `monitor_ml`
  
For more information, see <<security-privileges>> and <<built-in-roles>>.

[[ml-put-inference-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

Create {infer} trained model API enables you to supply a trained model that is 
not created by {dfanalytics}. 

[[ml-put-inference-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<model_id>`::
(Required, string) 
include::{docdir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-id]

[[ml-put-inference-query-params]]

> ==== {api-query-parms-title}

Reviewer: This should be `Request body` instead

Author: Thanks! Fixed.

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[put-inference]]
=== Create {infer} trained model API
[subs="attributes"]
++++

> <titleabbrev>Crerate {infer} trained model</titleabbrev>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<titleabbrev>Create {infer} trained model</titleabbrev>
```

++++

Creates an {infer} trained model.

experimental[]

[[ml-put-inference-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`PUT _ml/inference/<model_id>`

[[ml-put-inference-prereq]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the following 
built-in roles and privileges:

* `machine_learning_admin`

> * source index: `read`, `view_index_metadata`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
There are no additional special roles. Either they must be a cluster admin, or a `machine_learning_admin`

> * destination index: `read`, `create_index`, `manage` and `index`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> * cluster: `monitor_ml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

[[ml-put-inference-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

Create {infer} trained model API enables you to supply a trained model that is 
not created by {dfanalytics}. 

[[ml-put-inference-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<model_id>`::
(Required, string) 
include::{docdir}/ml/ml-shared.asciidoc[tag=model-id]

[[ml-put-inference-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`compressed_definition`::
(Required, string) 
The compressed (GZipped and Base64 encoded) {infer} definition of the model. 
If `compressed_definition` is specified, then `definition` cannot be specified.

`definition`::
(Required, object) 
The {infer} definition for the model. If `definition` is specified, then 
`compressed_definition` cannot be specified.

`definition`.`preprocessors`:::
(Optional, object)
Collection of preprocessors. See <<ml-put-inference-preprocessors>> for the full 
list of available preprocessors.

`definition`.`trained_model`:::
(Required, object) 
The definition of the trained model. See <<ml-put-inference-trained-model>> for 
details.

`description`::
(Optional, string) 
A human-readable description of the {infer} trained model.

`input`::
(Required, object) 

> The input field names for the model definition.

Reviewer 2: we should specify `input.field_names` somewhere.

`metadata`::
(Optional, object) 
An object map that contains metadata about the model.

`tags`::
(Optional, string) 
An array of tags to organize the model.

[[ml-put-inference-preprocessors]]
===== {infer-cap} preprocessor definitions

`frequency_encoding`::
(Required, object) 
Defines a frequency encoding for a field.

`frequency_encoding`.`field`:::
(Required, string) 
The field name to encode.

`frequency_encoding`.`feature_name`:::
(Required, string) 
The name of the resulting feature.

`frequency_encoding`.`frequency_map`:::
(Required, object map of string:double) 
Object that maps the field value to the frequency encoded value.

`one_hot_encoding`::
(Required, object) 
Defines a one hot encoding map for a field.

`one_hot_encoding`.`field`:::
(Required, string) 
The field name to encode.

`one_hot_encoding`.`hot_map`:::
(Required, object map of strings) 
String map of "field_value: one_hot_column_name".

`target_mean_encoding`::
(Required, object) 
Defines a target mean encoding for a field.

`target_mean_encoding`.`field`:::
(Required, string)
The field name to encode.

`target_mean_encoding`.`feature_name`:::
(Required, string) 
The name of the resulting feature.

> `target_mean_encoding`.`target.map`:::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`target_mean_encoding`.`target_map`:::
```

(Required, object map of string:double) 
Object that maps the field value to the target mean value.

> `target_mean_encoding`.`default.value`:::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`target_mean_encoding`.`default_value`:::
```

            "split_gain":4112.094574306927,
            "node_index":0,
            "default_left":true,
            "left_child":1,
            "right_child":2
         },
         ...         
         {
            "node_index":9,
            "leaf_value":-27.68987349695448
         },
         ...
      ],
      "target_type":"regression"
   }
}
----------------------------------
//NOTCONSOLE

The following example shows an `ensemble` model object:

[source,js]
----------------------------------
"ensemble":{
   "feature_names":[
      ...
   ],
   "trained_models":[
      {
         "tree":{
            "feature_names":[],
            "tree_structure":[
               {
                  "decision_type":"lte",
                  "node_index":0,
                  "leaf_value":47.64069875778043,
                  "default_left":false
               }
            ],
            "target_type":"regression"
         }
      },
      ...
   ],
   "aggregate_output":{
      "weighted_sum":{
         "weights":[
            ...
         ]
      }
   },
   "target_type":"regression"
}
----------------------------------
//NOTCONSOLE

[[ml-put-inference-aggregated-output-example]]

> ===== Aggregated output examples

Reviewer 2: This seems out of place. 

The rest of the examples are JSON object examples. I think we should supply examples for these objects as well. 

I am not sure if the additional text below is needed. Especially given the explanation above.

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[put-inference]]
=== Create {infer} trained model API
[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>Create {infer} trained model</titleabbrev>
++++

Creates an {infer} trained model.

experimental[]

[[ml-put-inference-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`PUT _ml/inference/<model_id>`

[[ml-put-inference-prereq]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the following 
built-in roles and privileges:

* `machine_learning_admin`

For more information, see <<security-privileges>> and <<built-in-roles>>.

[[ml-put-inference-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

> Create {infer} trained model API enables you to supply a trained model that is 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The create {infer} trained model API enables you to supply a trained model that is 
```

`tree_node.node_index` value.

`tree`.`classification_labels`:::
(Optional, string) An array of classification labels (used for 
`classification`).

`tree`.`target_type`:::
(Required, string) 
String indicating the model target type; `regression` or `classification`.

There are two major types of nodes: leaf nodes and not-leaf nodes.

* Leaf nodes only need `node_index` and `leaf_value` defined.
* All other nodes need `split_feature`, `left_child`, `right_child`, 
  `threshold`, `decision_type`, and `default_left` defined.

`tree_node`::
(Required, object) 
The definition of a node in a tree.

`tree_node`.`decision_type`:::
(Optional, string) 
Indicates the positive value (in other words, when to choose the left node) 
decision type. Supported `lt`, `lte`, `gt`, `gte`. Defaults to `lte`.

`tree_node`.`threshold`:::
(Optional, double) 
The decision threshold with which to compare the feature value.

`tree_node`.`left_child`:::
(Optional, integer) 
The index of the left child.

`tree_node`.`right_child`:::
(Optional, integer) 
The index of the right child.

`tree_node`.`default_left`:::
(Optional, boolean) 

> Should default to the left if the feature is missing. Defaults to `true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Indicates whether to default to the left when the feature is missing. Defaults to `true`.
```

for values [0, 1]). It multiplies the outputs (in the case of the `ensemble` 
model, the inference model values) by the supplied `weights`. The resulting 
vector is summed and passed to a 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sigmoid_function[`sigmoid` function]. The result 
of the `sigmoid` function is considered the probability of class 1 (`P_1`), 
consequently, the probability of class 0 is `1 - P_1`. The class with the 
highest probability (either 0 or 1) is then returned. For more information about 
logistic regression, see 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_regression[this wiki article].

`logistic_regression`.`weights`:::
(Required, double) 
The weights to multiply by the input values (the inference values of the trained 
models).

`weighted_sum`::
(Optional, object) 
This `aggregated_output` type works with regression. The weighted sum of the 
input values.

`weighted_sum`.`weights`:::
(Required, double) 
The weights to multiply by the input values (the inference values of the trained 
models).

`weighted_mode`::
(Optional, object) 
This `aggregated_output` type works with regression or classification. It takes 

> a weighted vote of the input values. The the most common input value (taking the 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a weighted vote of the input values. The most common input value (taking the 
```

weights into account) is returned.

`weighted_mode`.`weights`:::
(Required, double) 
The weights to multiply by the input values (the inference values of the trained 
models).

See <<ml-put-inference-aggregated-output-example>> for more details.

[[ml-put-inference-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

> 

Reviewer 3: I think it's a bit unusual to have a bunch of incomplete examples in an API reference page. I think once we have a fuller set of examples (e.g. in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/machine-learning/master/dfanalytics-examples.html), this section should just contain a single example (even if it's an abbreviated one).
